Previously on "12 Monkeys "...
She took Elena from me.
I'm not gonna let you take my son.
He didn't kill them.
Daddy thought he did.
I remember meeting you in 1987.
Tokyo... I think this is it.
This is where it all started.
- There's only one who truly knows.
- The Witness.
What exactly has this asshole witnessed?
- How many jumps have I got left?
- We are out of time.
What are you willing to do
to keep her alive?
Helping to destroy the world
to save just one person?
Your son's already dead.
Ramse!
One person that you love...
In the end, isn't that all that matters?
(INDISTINCT DISTORTED SPEECH)
(RAMSE PANTS)
(VOMITS)
(SPEAKS JAPANESE)
Ramse!
(EIGHTIES DISCO MUSIC)
(SNORTS)
I don't get it.
What am I supposed to be
looking at here?
This is the biological sample.
This is a photograph.
Pretty shitty one, at that.
I need to get my eyes on it.
You're actually bringing it out here?
I don't know, boys.
One-Eyed Willy's a little lackluster.
The specimen is over 1,000 years old,
excavated in the Himalayas.
The tissue has been carbon-dated.
Mostly necrotic tissue.
This fellow may have been frozen,
but he sat around in the sun
rotting first.
Everything got to him...
Bacteria, animals.
Soft tissue or not,
the DNA here is fragmented at best.
That's an antique.
What's the price tag?
$500,000.
Pass.
Look, Markridge is less than
ten years away from human cloning.
Who isn't?
I want to...
No... need a stellar sample
from the past.
And that ain't it.
This particular piece is far more
valuable than you think, Mr Goines.
And you have the balls to ask me
for a half a mil in devalued US currency
for some... Himalayan roadkill?
No domo arigato, Mr Roboto.
It's Nakano.
And the price is not negotiable.
You have a young daughter, Mr Goines.
This piece could be
part of your legacy to her.
My daughter...
Christ. I need to use the John.
You people use too much laxative
to cut your coke.
What the hell?
- You're Leland Goines.
- Who are you?
Army of the 12 Monkeys, where are they?
Monkey? Easy, pal.
Sake's not cheap here. Pace yourself.
Where's the virus?
Oh, Christ. Nakano send you after me?
What?
Look, I don't care how many drunk ninjas
he throws at me.
That kamikaze prick's not sending my
company to the bank for a frozen corpse.
Corpse.
This is where you get the virus.
Virus? There's a virus in that thing?
- Ramse!
- You son of a bitch.
No, no.
(GLASS SMASHES, SCREAMING)
(GUNSHOT, SCREAMING)
Max is dead. I should have killed you
when Deacon told me to.
I should have killed you
when we were kids.
You got Elena killed, our son!
It doesn't matter.
Whole world's gonna die.
- You! Me! Cassie!
- Enough!
Just when I was starting to get bored.
About that thing in the hallway.
So, these guys aren't with you?
Never seen them before.
How do you people settle these things?
(SPEAKS JAPANESE)
(GRUNTS)
- (BEEPING)
- No!
No, we can't lose him!
Wait, wait. We still have him.
Wa... That's odd. His vitals, they...
It's as if he's...
Dying.
- (COCKS GUN)
- Hold it.
That one lives.
(COLE GROANS)
You got a deal.
Have those remains gift-wrapped
and sent over to Markridge.
Army of the 12 Monkeys.
If they end the world...
Do something with this one.
Everyone out!
Clear the room!
MAN: Look, the embassy can't
do anything for you
without a real name
or a valid social security number.
Where I come from, we don't have those.
Oh, so you're not from the US then?
Because everyone in the US
has a social security number.
Look, you're in big-time trouble here.
You could get eight to ten years
for stabbing that man.
They have you running two blocks down
from the scene of the crime
with blood on your hands.
- Witnesses said.
- Witnesses?
Witnesses have identified you.
Now, if you would just tell me whose
blood that was and how it got there.
No? OK.
Look, Jose, I don't know
what your problem is.
Maybe you feel
like you deserve to be here.
But unless you give me
something real,
something or someone
that proves you're a US citizen,
there's nothing I can do for you.
OK, good talk.
Enjoy the prison food.
(MAN SPEAKS JAPANESE)
MAN: Mail...
Mail from who?
Hey, from who?
WOMAN: We 've known of you
for a long time, traveler.
You were born Jose Ramse.
You had a child.
You are now separated from him
by a great distance.
Join me, traveler.
And forever he will be safe
from those who seek to erase him.
You are not alone, traveler.
You are important, valued, loved.
I know you want to fight back
against your tormenter.
But there is a better way,
and I can show it to you.
Peace awaits you, traveler.
With love, Olivia.
(MAN SPEAKS JAPANESE)
Dear traveler, it is unfortunate
that I cannot intervene
with your incarceration.
However, what I can do is ensure
your time there is enriched
with the words and teachings of those
whose wisdom is beyond my own.
Take these words into your heart
and write down your own.
Your inner-most thoughts,
your history,
and the history of the world
as you know it.
This is the key to your freedom.
You can end your torment
and defeat those who would torment you.
Do you think I have forgotten
about you ?
Did you think
you could have peace ?
Little man, I am your master.
For years I have endured
the beatings of this man.
I have never told anyone...
that he is working for the guards.
He is the snitch
who has undermined you.
The supreme art of war...
is to subdue the enemy
without fighting.
I killed you...
without lifting a finger.
(MEN SHOUT)
These are yours.
They were sent to you.
- These are not mine.
- Yes, they are.
And this, you brought with you.
WOMAN: Take it... it's yours.
Dear traveler,
your time in the desert is over.
You have become who you need to be,
and now it is time for you
to join us on the outside.
We have so much to show you.
A great journey is ahead of us.
So much responsibility.
You are the key to our next cycle.
This isn't me.
I'm not the man you think I am.
We waited and waited.
And now... you are here.
Your father would be
so happy to see this.
It's an honor to witness this.
His amulet from your time.
And yours.
Come.
When what has been
and what has not come together,
we can make great changes.
Witness with us.
Step up.
Your father was right.
Yes. He has come.
How are you?
Time isn't perfect.
Yet I'm envious how most of you
seem to defy it.
Have your memory sessions
garnered anything new?
There's a company
that manufactures the virus, Markridge.
STRIKING WOMAN: We should invest.
The silent partner is no more.
It's an honor to meet you.
Your investments in our company...
Sorry, I... I don't mean to stare.
You just look familiar.
I don't think we've met before.
Ethan Seki.
Well, I speak for everyone
when I say we're actually... relieved.
Your company's readiness
ahead of 9/11 and the war in the Gulf,
it's like you saw it coming.
Our investment group prides itself
on being prepared
for any number of eventualities.
Markridge's future in biotechnology
is of great interest to us.
We look forward to what
your company has to offer.
I'll be right there.
Please, have a seat. I'll be right back.
Tokyo.
1987. White Dragon?
You sure we haven't met?
I've never been.
Everything's changing.
Green to red.
- Jennifer.
- Daddy, everything's changing.
STRIKING WOMAN:
Despite our influences,
we've not been able to learn
the location of the laboratory
that cultivates the virus:
the Night Room.
We're pursuing a scientist who knows.
Henri Toussaint is dead.
The epidemic caused by the river fever
we planted drew him out,
but he was murdered
before he could be questioned.
- By who?
- James Cole.
The period of interference has begun.
We believe it's time to intervene
with Goines and his daughter.
Not yet.
Cole will return in 2015.
He still has to see Jennifer.
That's how it happens.
(DOOR OPENS)
Jennifer.
Father.
It's good to see you. You look well.
- How you feeling?
- Good. Very good.
Been taking the pills...
all of them...
...reds and blues.
So everything's... tip-top.
So... good to go.
So, what's the plan?
Regarding?
Jailbreak. Freedom.
Rita Hayworth and a tiny hammer.
You're here to spring me, right?
If I could.
Think you're ready?
Ready, Freddie. I'm...
I'm ready as I'll ever be.
The coast is clear, so...
"Let my people go."
No... no more voices. No, just one.
Just mine.
I'm all better now.
Better?
I didn't kill those people.
They were good people, your people.
I would never, ever do that.
- You sure?
- Yes.
Cos I've been going at this a long time,
in and out of these places,
with your mother, and now you.
I'm not like Mom.
No, she was sick. She turned on you.
I would never do that.
I kept your secrets.
The Night Room?
Locked away. I didn't tell.
I'd never tell.
Secrets, Jennifer...
...are something never said out loud.
Not even here.
Not even with me!
You understand?
Yes. Sorry.
OK.
I think it's best
you're here for the time being.
No.
Best for who? Best for who?
Best for who?
Daddy... Daddy!
I'm your daughter! No!
Want to move the cultivated samples
of M-510 to another location.
I think the Night Room is vulnerable.
Call Peters.
Maybe he'll take that CIA deal.
Uh, about Jennifer...
The security footage clearly
shows she didn't kill those...
Jennifer is exactly
where she needs to be.
- Am I clear?
- Absolutely.
I remember meeting you in 1987,
28 years ago.
And you looked exactly the same
as you do today.
Leland Goines has been murdered.
We received a call
from the mental institution.
Jennifer Goines
is talking about the Night Room.
I believe this means we can pursue.
Jennifer gave us
the location of the Night Room,
but the origin of the virus
was destroyed by James Cole.
Why would you allow us
to be set up for failure?
The period of interference
must be maintained.
There's something you're not telling me.
This cycle must happen
exactly as it has,
otherwise the traveler
will have never come.
We must maintain it.
The virus was lost to us in Chechnya.
It's time to move on to Oliver Peters.
He will re-create it for us.
(GROANS)
The virus, where is it?
Aaron Marker.
Dr Railly is very important...
to us, and to you.
So tell me, what are you willing to do
to keep her alive?
Marker won't be a problem.
My bigger concern is Dr Railly.
You can't kill her.
If she doesn't leave that message
during the plague...
...Cole won't make it back here.
Neither will I.
We should talk about James Cole.
- He's not a concern.
- How can you be so sure?
I killed him... in '87.
That was his lastjump.
You have a working virus now.
It's over.
What's next?
The plague... and the coming of the 12.
Sources are now saying Senator William
Royce will run for president in 2016.
Insiders were tipped off earlier today
when news broke
claiming Royce had released
some of his senatorial staff
to focus solely
on a new campaign committee,
although official confirmation
and a press conference
have yet to be announced.
This news comes as little surprise
to pundits on Capitol Hill.
Hey. I've been trying
to call you all day.
Mmm. Battery's dead.
I've been watching the news.
Yeah, yeah. Big, big story, huh?
- You're drunk.
-Hmm?
Shouldn't you be somewhere with Royce?
Uh, no.
No, I'm not working
for the Senator any more.
I have been vetted, and... found to be
unsuitable for the future campaign.
Chechnya, Troy... you.
(CHUCKLES)
I have too much baggage for him
to carry over into the primaries.
- Aaron, no, I am so...
- Mm-mmm, mm-mmm, no, no.
No, there's nothing to be sorry about.
Look, you know, I know. Huh?
None of this matters.
Anyway, Royce is a dead man.
They're all dead men.
Right? But we...
...we have a chance, OK?
Insider information.
Right?
Look, we can be prepared for it,
and we can ride it out, survive it.
Look, shelters, places
way out in the middle of nowhere,
where we could... we can hide.
OK, stop, Aaron.
- What?
- Stop.
Cassie, I'm not gonna let you die here.
But this isn't over yet.
There's still hope.
What hope?
Cole?
When is the last time
that you've even seen Cole?
Huh?
How do you know
that he's not somewhere else?
Dead.
Yeah.
You know what's coming, Cassie!
How can you tell me
not to do anything?
How can you burden me with this
and expect me to just sit
on my goddamn hands, Cassie?
- OK, listen to me. Listen to me.
- No.
Listen, what you need to do
is go back to Royce.
- No.
- Yes. Stay on him.
Convince him
that something needs to be done.
We can'tjust run.
People need to know.
Look, Marker,
I feel terrible about this.
Wexler, Chechnya,
they are gonna be so up my ass
come election time over that fiasco.
I understand.
You'll still have access to the offices,
in the meantime.
I'm sure you'll land on your feet.
Sir, I was wondering about the private
sector project you were working on,
the selective survival protocol
in the event of a widespread disaster.
Well, that's just
in the think tank stage right now.
It could be interesting
for someone of your concerns.
I tell you what, the investor is
on their way over here right now,
and they're looking for someone
to spearhead the project.
I know what's happening here.
You climb the steps, ring the bell.
- What happened to her?
- She got out again.
Found her living on the streets,
hiding behind a dumpster like a dog.
Oh, my God.
"Hiding behind a dumpster like a dog."
Ow!
(DOOR LOCKING)
Hey!
Hey, let me out!
Hello, Jennifer.
How was your bath?
I've wanted to meet you for some time.
I knew your father.
My company contributed
to his research many years ago.
May I?
Did he ever tell you
how much he loved you?
My father was the same.
He had plans for me.
There was a thing in a box...
...with printed instructions.
Difficult... problematic.
We know you didn't kill those
people at Markridge, Jennifer.
We have proof... security footage.
No more running.
Did you ever know
your mother, Jennifer?
They took her away, didn't they?
Along time ago.
Your father abandoned her, too.
Locked her away
till she went to sleep.
No one was left to protect you.
I can protect you now.
You can be a daughter again.
I want to be a daughter again.
Yeah.
Shh.
What is she telling her in there?
Oh, she's... securing your future.
I thought my future was my own.
Of course. It is.
(BUZZER)
No! No, we can't lose him!
(GROANS)
Wait. That's odd.
His vitals, they...
It's... it's as if he's...
Dying.
Do something with this one.
Everyone out!
JONES: Slingshot Mr Cole to 2015.
MAN: Clear the room!
2015? With this much power
and a signal so weak...
...we could overload the tether.
It might break.
We could lose him forever.
We have to!
JONES: This is not a predict.
Resetting coordinates,
sending Mr Cole to 2015.
Initiating splinter sequence... now.
Good luck, James.
WHITLEY: Jones...
Not now, Mr Whitley.
- I think we should have a drink.
- You don't drink.
I told you that if I did,
it'd be with you.
So... this is good bye?
We lost the tether.
Cole's gone. The mission is over.
The mission is temporarily...
It's over.
Spearhead...
Ramse... now Cole.
We don't have enough men
to secure this facility.
We're vulnerable to the next group
that passes by, no matter how small.
There's word of a city
just west of here.
There's nothing out there, Marcus,
and never will be.
Nothing here, except a ticking clock.
We have the machine!
I am the clock.
I left my father for you.
I killed for you.
I believed in you.
Did you ever have children?
A son.
He succumbed... in 2017.
The greatest lie is believing
that we are shaping them,
that we have any control.
No. They make us.
They can destroy us.
What's left for us now, Katarina?
What options do we have?
I'm incapable of abandoning this place.
There are no other options for me.
Even if there's no hope?
Even if it means
knowing you will die here?
Hope? (CHUCKLES)
Hope is the luxury of those
who are unburdened by fate.
My last breath will be here.
Cole? What happened?
They've been one step ahead of us
the whole way.
- Now I know why.
- How?
I know who the Witness is.
Subtitles: BTI Studios
English SDH